TESTING.md, before:

# Testing Guide for GM Chatbot

This document describes the smoke tests and testing procedures for the GM Chatbot.

## Test Files

- `test_game_engine.py` - Unit tests for game engine components
- `test_command_parser.py` - Unit tests for command parsing
- `test_gm_handler.py` - Unit tests for GM handler
- `smoke_test.py` - Comprehensive smoke test runner
- `test_websocket.sh` - Bash script for basic connectivity tests
- `health_check.py` - HTTP health check server for curl testing

## Running Tests

### Python Unit Tests

Run all unit tests:

```bash
python3 -m unittest discover -v
```

Run specific test file:

```bash
python3 -m unittest test_game_engine -v
python3 -m unittest test_command_parser -v
python3 -m unittest test_gm_handler -v
```

### Comprehensive Smoke Test

Run the comprehensive smoke test script:

```bash
python3 smoke_test.py
```

This will:

1. Test module imports
2. Test basic functionality
3. Run all unit tests
4. Provide a summary

### Bash Smoke Tests (curl-compatible)

Run the bash smoke test script:

```bash
./test_websocket.sh
```

This script tests:

- Python installation
- Required dependencies
- Module imports
- Basic functionality
- Port availability

### HTTP Health Check (curl testing)

Start the health check server:

```bash
python3 health_check.py
```

In another terminal, test with curl:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

Expected response:

```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "checks": {
    "game_engine": "ok",
    "command_parser": "ok",
    "gm_handler": "ok",
    "dice_rolling": "ok"
  }
}
```

## Test Coverage

### Game Engine Tests

- Dice rolling (simple, multiple dice, modifiers)
- Shadowdark rules (ability checks, attacks, saves)
- Combat tracking (initiative, HP, AC, conditions)
- Spell management (casting, slots)

### Command Parser Tests

- All command types (!roll, !check, !attack, etc.)
- Command validation
- Error handling

### GM Handler Tests

- Command handling
- Question handling (with/without AI)
- Message routing

## Continuous Integration

To integrate into CI/CD:

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run tests
python3 smoke_test.py

# Check exit code (0 = success, 1 = failure)
echo $?
```

## Manual Testing

For manual testing of the full system:

1. Start the chatbot server:

   ```bash
   python3 chat_bot.py
   ```

2. Install the Tampermonkey script (`chat_connector.js`)

3. Connect to a Roll20 game

4. Test commands in chat:
   - `!roll 2d6`
   - `!check strength 15`
   - `!combat start`
   - `!help`

## Troubleshooting

### Import Errors

If you see import errors, ensure you're running tests from the project root:

```bash
cd /path/to/roll20_chatbot
python3 smoke_test.py
```

### Missing Dependencies

Install all dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Port Already in Use

If port 5678 is already in use, either:

- Stop the existing server
- Change the port in `config.py`

Commit message:

Major feature update: Enhanced chatbot functionality and documentation
- Add comprehensive documentation:
  - CLIENT_TESTING.md: Guide for testing Tampermonkey userscript
  - USAGE.md: User guide for Roll20 Shadowdark RPG Chatbot commands
  - Updated README.md and TESTING.md with additional information

- Enhance core functionality:
  - Significant improvements to ai_handler.py (389+ lines added)
  - Major updates to chat_bot.py (464+ lines added)
  - Enhanced chat_connector.js with improved WebSocket handling
  - Updated gm_handler.py with new features
  - Added new configuration options in config.py

- Infrastructure improvements:
  - Updated Dockerfile and fly.toml for deployment
  - Added build.sh script for infrastructure builds
  - Enhanced infrastructure README with deployment details
  - Updated GitHub Actions workflow

- Testing and development:
  - Added test_client.html for standalone testing
  - Updated test_websocket.sh
  - Updated requirements.txt with new dependencies
  - Cleaned up .gitignore

Total: 18 files changed, 1965 insertions(+), 245 deletions(-)

TESTING.md, after:

# Testing Guide for GM Chatbot

This document describes the smoke tests and testing procedures for the GM Chatbot.

## Test Files

### Server-Side Tests
- `test_game_engine.py` - Unit tests for game engine components
- `test_command_parser.py` - Unit tests for command parsing
- `test_gm_handler.py` - Unit tests for GM handler
- `smoke_test.py` - Comprehensive smoke test runner
- `test_websocket.sh` - Bash script for basic connectivity tests
- `health_check.py` - HTTP health check server for curl testing

### Client-Side Tests
- `test_client.html` - Standalone HTML page to test the client-side code
- `CLIENT_TESTING.md` - Comprehensive guide for testing the client-side userscript

## Running Tests

### Python Unit Tests

Run all unit tests:

```bash
python3 -m unittest discover -v
```

Run specific test file:

```bash
python3 -m unittest test_game_engine -v
python3 -m unittest test_command_parser -v
python3 -m unittest test_gm_handler -v
```

### Comprehensive Smoke Test

Run the comprehensive smoke test script:

```bash
python3 smoke_test.py
```

This will:

1. Test module imports
2. Test basic functionality
3. Run all unit tests
4. Provide a summary

### Bash Smoke Tests (curl-compatible)

Run the bash smoke test script:

```bash
./test_websocket.sh
```

This script tests:

- Python installation
- Required dependencies
- Module imports
- Basic functionality
- Port availability

### HTTP Health Check (curl testing)

Start the health check server:

```bash
python3 health_check.py
```

In another terminal, test with curl:

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

Expected response:

```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "checks": {
    "game_engine": "ok",
    "command_parser": "ok",
    "gm_handler": "ok",
    "dice_rolling": "ok"
  }
}
```

## Test Coverage

### Game Engine Tests

- Dice rolling (simple, multiple dice, modifiers)
- Shadowdark rules (ability checks, attacks, saves)
- Combat tracking (initiative, HP, AC, conditions)
- Spell management (casting, slots)

### Command Parser Tests

- All command types (!roll, !check, !attack, etc.)
- Command validation
- Error handling

### GM Handler Tests

- Command handling
- Question handling (with/without AI)
- Message routing

## Continuous Integration

To integrate into CI/CD:

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run tests
python3 smoke_test.py

# Check exit code (0 = success, 1 = failure)
echo $?
```

## Client-Side Testing

For testing the client-side Tampermonkey userscript (`chat_connector.js`), see **[CLIENT_TESTING.md](CLIENT_TESTING.md)** for detailed instructions.

Quick start:
1. Use the standalone test page: `test_client.html`
2. Or test directly in Roll20 with Tampermonkey installed
3. Check browser console for connection logs and errors

## Manual Testing

For manual testing of the full system:

1. Start the chatbot server:

   ```bash
   python3 chat_bot.py
   ```

2. Install the Tampermonkey script (`chat_connector.js`)

3. Connect to a Roll20 game

4. Test commands in chat:
   - `!roll 2d6`
   - `!check strength 15`
   - `!combat start`
   - `!help`

## Troubleshooting

### Import Errors

If you see import errors, ensure you're running tests from the project root:

```bash
cd /path/to/roll20_chatbot
python3 smoke_test.py
```

### Missing Dependencies

Install all dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Port Already in Use

If port 5678 is already in use, either:

- Stop the existing server
- Change the port in `config.py`
